
'It may well be,' 

 'it may
well be on such a night of clouds and cruel colours that there is
brought forth upon the earth such a portent as a respectable poet.
You say you are a poet of law; I say you are a contradiction in
terms. I only wonder there were not comets and earthquakes on the
night you appeared in this garden.'


'An artist is identical with an anarchist,' 

 'You might
transpose the words anywhere. An anarchist is an artist. The man
who throws a bomb is an artist, because he prefers a great moment
to everything. He sees how much more valuable is one burst of
blazing light, one peal of perfect thunder, than the mere common
bodies of a few shapeless policemen. An artist disregards all
governments, abolishes all conventions. The poet delights in
disorder only. If it were not so, the most poetical thing in the
world would be the Underground Railway.'


'So it is,' 


'Nonsense!' 

 'Why do all the clerks and navvies in the
railway trains look so sad and tired, so very sad and tired? I will
tell you. It is because they know that the train is going right. It
is because they know that whatever place they have taken a ticket
for that place they will reach. It is because after they have
passed Sloane Square they know that the next station must be
Victoria, and nothing but Victoria. Oh, their wild rapture! oh,
their eyes like stars and their souls again in Eden, if the next
station were unaccountably Baker Street!'


'It is you who are unpoetical,' 

 'If what you
say of clerks is true, they can only be as prosaic as your poetry.
The rare, strange thing is to hit the mark; the gross, obvious
thing is to miss it. We feel it is epical when man with one wild
arrow strikes a distant bird. Is it not also epical when man with
one wild engine strikes a distant station? Chaos is dull; because
in chaos the train might indeed go anywhere, to Baker Street or to
Bagdad. But man is a magician, and his whole magic is in this, that
he does say Victoria, and lo! it is Victoria. No, take your books
of mere poetry and prose; let me read a time table, with tears of
pride. Take your Byron, who commemorates the defeats of man; give
me Bradshaw, who commemorates his victories. Give me Bradshaw, I
say!'


'Must you go?' 

'I tell you,' 

 'that every time a train
comes in I feel that it has broken past batteries of besiegers, and
that man has won a battle against chaos. You say contemptuously
that when one has left Sloane Square one must come to Victoria. I
say that one might do a thousand things instead, and that whenever
I really come there I have the sense of hairbreadth escape. And
when I hear the guard shout out the word 'Victoria,' it is not an
unmeaning word. It is to me the cry of a herald announcing
conquest. It is to me indeed 'Victoria'; it is the victory of
Adam.'


'And even then,' 

 'we poets always ask the question, 'And
what is Victoria now that you have got there ?' You think Victoria
is like the New Jerusalem. We know that the New Jerusalem will only
be like Victoria. Yes, the poet will be discontented even in the
streets of heaven. The poet is always in revolt.'


'There again,' 

 'what is there poetical about
being in revolt ? You might as well say that it is poetical to be
sea-sick. Being sick is a revolt. Both being sick and being
rebellious may be the wholesome thing on certain desperate
occasions; but I'm hanged if I can see why they are poetical.
Revolt in the abstract is--revolting. It's mere vomiting.' 

'It is things going right,' 

 'that is poetical I Our
digestions, for instance, going sacredly and silently right, that
is the foundation of all poetry. Yes, the most poetical thing, more
poetical than the flowers, more poetical than the stars--the most
poetical thing in the world is not being sick.'


'Really,'

 'the examples you choose--'


'I beg your pardon,' 

 'I forgot we had abolished
all conventions.'

'You don't expect me,' 

 'to revolutionise society on this
lawn ?'


'No, I don't,' 

 'but I suppose that if you were serious
about your anarchism, that is exactly what you would do.'


'Don't you think, then,' 

 'that I am
serious about my anarchism?'



'I beg your pardon ?' 


'Am I not serious about my anarchism ?' 


'My dear fellow!' 


'Mr. Syme,' 

 'do the people who talk like you and my
brother often mean what they say ? Do you mean what you say now ?'


'Do you ?' 


'What do you mean ?' 


'My dear Miss Gregory,' 

'there are many kinds of
sincerity and insincerity. When you say 'thank you' for the salt,
do you mean what you say ? No. When you say 'the world is round,'
do you mean what you say ? No. It is true, but you don't mean it.
Now, sometimes a man like your brother really finds a thing he does
mean. It may be only a half-truth, quarter-truth, tenth-truth; but
then he says more than he means--from sheer force of meaning it.'


'Is he really an anarchist, then?' 


'Only in that sense I speak of,' 

'or if you prefer
it, in that nonsense.'


'He wouldn't really use--bombs or that sort of thing?'


'Good Lord, no!' 

 'that has to be done anonymously.'


'I was waiting for you,' 

 'Might I have a moment's
conversation?'


'Certainly. About what?' 

 'About this and this,' 

  'about order and anarchy.
There is your precious order, that lean, iron lamp, ugly and
barren; and there is anarchy, rich, living, reproducing
itself--there is anarchy, splendid in green and gold.'


'All the same,' 

 'just at present you only
see the tree by the light of the lamp. I wonder when you would ever
see the lamp by the light of the tree.' 


'But may I ask if you have been standing out here in the dark only
to resume our little argument?'


'No,' 

 'I
did not stand here to resume our argument, but to end it for ever.'


'Mr. Syme,' 

 'this evening you succeeded in doing something
rather remarkable. You did something to me that no man born of
woman has ever succeeded in doing before.'


'Indeed!'

'Now I remember,' 

'one other person
succeeded in doing it. The captain of a penny steamer (if I
remember correctly) at Southend. You have irritated me.'


'I am very sorry,' 

'I am afraid my fury and your insult are too shocking to be wiped
out even with an apology,' 

 'No duel
could wipe it out. If I struck you dead I could not wipe it out.
There is only one way by which that insult can be erased, and that
way I choose. I am going, at the possible sacrifice of my life and
honour, to prove to you that you were wrong in what you said.'


'In what I said?'


'You said I was not serious about being an anarchist.'


'There are degrees of seriousness,' 

 'I have never
doubted that you were perfectly sincere in this sense, that you
thought what you said well worth saying, that you thought a
paradox might wake men up to a neglected truth.'


'And in no other sense,' 

 'you think me serious? You think
me a flaneur who lets fall occasional truths. You do not think that
in a deeper, a more deadly sense, I am serious.'


'Serious!' 

 'Good Lord! is this street serious? Are these
damned Chinese lanterns serious? Is the whole caboodle serious?
One comes here and talks a pack of bosh, and perhaps some sense as
well, but I should think very little of a man who didn't keep
something in the background of his life that was more serious than
all this talking--something more serious, whether it was religion
or only drink.'


'Very well,' 

 'you shall see
something more serious than either drink or religion.'



'You spoke just now of having a religion. Is it really true that
you have one?'


'Oh,' 

 'we are all Catholics now.'


'Then may I ask you to swear by whatever gods or saints your
religion involves that you will not reveal what I am now going to
tell you to any son of Adam, and especially not to the police?
Will you swear that! If you will take upon yourself this awful
abnegations if you will consent to burden your soul with a vow
that you should never make and a knowledge you should never dream
about, I will promise you in return--'


'You will promise me in return?' 


'I will promise you a very entertaining evening.' 


'Your offer,' 

 'is far too idiotic to be declined. You say
that a poet is always an anarchist. I disagree; but I hope at least
that he is always a sportsman. Permit me, here and now, to swear as
a Christian, and promise as a good comrade and a fellow-artist,
that I will not report anything of this, whatever it is, to the
police. And now, in the name of Colney Hatch, what is it?'


'I think,' 

 'that we will
call a cab.'


'Will you take a little supper?' 

 'The pate
de foie gras is not good here, but I can recommend the game.'


'Oh, bring me some lobster mayonnaise.'

 'Certainly,
sir!' 


'What will you drink?' 

 'I shall only have a crepe de menthe myself; I have
dined. But the champagne can really be trusted. Do let me start you
with a half-bottle of Pommery at least?'


'Thank you!' 

 'You are very good.'


'Excuse me if I enjoy myself rather obviously!'

 'I don't often have the luck to have a dream like this. It
is new to me for a nightmare to lead to a lobster. It is commonly
the other way.'


'You are not asleep, I assure you,' 

 'You are, on the
contrary, close to the most actual and rousing moment of your
existence. Ah, here comes your champagne! I admit that there may be
a slight disproportion, let us say, between the inner arrangements
of this excellent hotel and its simple and unpretentious exterior.
But that is all our modesty. We are the most modest men that ever
lived on earth.'


'And who are we?' 


'It is quite simple,' 

 'We are the serious
anarchists, in whom you do not believe.'


'Oh!' 

 'You do yourselves well in drinks.'

'Yes, we are serious about everything,' 


'If in a few moments this table begins to turn round a little,
don't put it down to your inroads into the champagne. I don't wish
you to do yourself an injustice.'


'Well, if I am not drunk, I am mad,' 

 'but I trust I can behave like a gentleman in either
condition. May I smoke?'


'Certainly!' 

 'Try one of
mine.'


'You must not mind it,' 

 'it's a kind of screw.'


'Quite so,' 

 'a kind of screw. How simple that
is!'


'Mr. Joseph Chamberlain.' 


'I must ask you to forgive me all these formalities,' 


'we have to be very strict here.'


'Oh, don't apologise,' 

 'I know your passion for law and
order,' 


'And now, my dear Mr. Syme,' 

 'now we are
quite cosy, so let us talk properly. Now no human words can give
you any notion of why I brought you here. It was one of those quite
arbitrary emotions, like jumping off a cliff or falling in love.
Suffice it to say that you were an inexpressibly irritating fellow,
and, to do you justice, you are still. I would break twenty oaths
of secrecy for the pleasure of taking you down a peg. That way you
have of lighting a cigar would make a priest break the seal of
confession. Well, you said that you were quite certain I was not a
serious anarchist. Does this place strike you as being serious?'


'It does seem to have a moral under all its gaiety,' 

 'but may I ask you two questions? You need not fear to give
me information, because, as you remember, you very wisely extorted
from me a promise not to tell the police, a promise I shall
certainly keep. So it is in mere curiosity that I make my queries.
First of all, what is it really all about? What is it you object
to? You want to abolish Government?'


'To abolish God!' 

 'We
do not only want to upset a few despotisms and police regulations;
that sort of anarchism does exist, but it is a mere branch of the
Nonconformists. We dig deeper and we blow you higher. We wish to
deny all those arbitrary distinctions of vice and virtue, honour
and treachery, upon which mere rebels base themselves. The silly
sentimentalists of the French Revolution talked of the Rights of
Man! We hate Rights as we hate Wrongs. We have abolished Right and
Wrong.'


'And Right and Left,' 

 'I hope
you will abolish them too. They are much more troublesome to me.'


'You spoke of a second question,' 



'With pleasure,' 

 'In all your present acts and
surroundings there is a scientific attempt at secrecy. I have an
aunt who lived over a shop, but this is the first time I have
found people living from preference under a public-house. You have
a heavy iron door. You cannot pass it without submitting to the
humiliation of calling yourself Mr. Chamberlain. You surround
yourself with steel instruments which make the place, if I may say
so, more impressive than homelike. May I ask why, after taking all
this trouble to barricade yourselves in the bowels of the earth,
you then parade your whole secret by talking about anarchism to
every silly woman in Saffron Park?'


'The answer is simple,' 

 'I told you I was a serious
anarchist, and you did not believe me. Nor do they believe me.
Unless I took them into this infernal room they would not believe
me.'


'The history of the thing might amuse you,' 

 'When first I
became one of the New Anarchists I tried all kinds of respectable
disguises. I dressed up as a bishop. I read up all about bishops
in our anarchist pamphlets, in Superstition the Vampire and
Priests of Prey. I certainly understood from them that bishops are
strange and terrible old men keeping a cruel secret from mankind.
I was misinformed. When on my first appearing in episcopal gaiters
in a drawing-room I cried out in a voice of thunder, 'Down! down!
presumptuous human reason!' they found out in some way that I was
not a bishop at all. I was nabbed at once. Then I made up as a
millionaire; but I defended Capital with so much intelligence that
a fool could see that I was quite poor. Then I tried being a
major. Now I am a humanitarian myself, but I have, I hope, enough
intellectual breadth to understand the position of those who, like
Nietzsche, admire violence--the proud, mad war of Nature and all
that, you know. I threw myself into the major. I drew my sword and
waved it constantly. I called out 'Blood!' abstractedly, like a
man calling for wine. I often said, 'Let the weak perish; it is
the Law.' Well, well, it seems majors don't do this. I was nabbed
again. At last I went in despair to the President of the Central
Anarchist Council, who is the greatest man in Europe.'


'What is his name?' 


'You would not know it,' 

'That is his greatness.
Caesar and Napoleon put all their genius into being heard of, and
they were heard of. He puts all his genius into not being heard of,
and he is not heard of. But you cannot be for five minutes in the
room with him without feeling that Caesar and Napoleon would have
been children in his hands.'



